---
layout: post
title: Teaching & Mentoring
description: Here is my teaching statement!
image: assets/images/duke_engn.jpg
nav-menu: true
---

I am a cognitive neuroscientist getting my PhD in electrical and computer engineering. After getting my undergraduate degree in cognitive neuroscience, I was left feeling that there was a lot missing in the accessibility and applicability of computational methods to undergraduates Despite studying the brain for years, I was less than confident that I would be able to apply what I had learned to actually studying the brain. The classes for methods in psychology and neuroscience came in two flavors: specific, high-level, and vague or abstract and basic with few relevant applications. As a result, my experiences reflected those of my peers - we were left without confidence in our abilities to apply our education to real-world problems. Transitioning to my PhD, I chose to study electrical and computer engineering to fill the gaps in my knowledge and prepare myself to teach at the college level. While I still work on solving neuroscience problems, I am solidifying my understanding of math and computer science so that I can change the way neuroscientists and psychologists are trained. 

Through my experiences in teaching, mentoring, and learning, I have found that my learning and the learning of my peers has been vastly accelerated when we are given confidence in our own learning abilities and in our ability to fail. In one of the best-taught classes I have taken, a machine learning course, we were given low-stakes opportunities to test our knowledge through ungraded clicker questions in class. We used think-pair-share learning, which not only helped the professor understand where we were as students, but helped us understand that we were not alone in our learning - we were part of a community that could bring up every student that was a part of it. This experience stood in stark contrast to the isolating math and statistics classes I had experienced previously, where collaboration was discouraged and self-evaluation was restricted to discrete assignments. I have translated this collaborative learning environment into my own classes and mentorship. I have found that the confidence that students gain by being in this supportive environment not only helps students learn better from course materials, it helps them understand the gaps in their own knowledge. This understanding leads to more informative questions about the class, letting me understand where I am falling short as a teacher and helping me grow as well. It also helps students apply class knowledge to their own fields – for me, the greatest sign of success in teaching is when a student or mentee comes to me with questions about applications of what they’ve learned to a problem that they themselves are interested in. In the Cognitive Neuroscience Research Internship (CNRI), I have helped design and teach the Python section to reflect these learning and teaching goals. We build up the knowledge of undergraduates with no prior coding or research experience through team-based learning, coding projects, and group discussion, to the point that by the end of the semester students can confidently code real psychology experiments and use them in their future research. During class, we use Google Colab to create interactive assignments (link will go here) that students work in groups to complete, while we provide support and discussion of concepts that we cover.


I plan to continue to bring these ideals to my future teaching experiences. I plan to continue mentoring and teaching with CNRI, but will also seek out teaching environments with larger class sizes so that I can continue to grow and improve as an instructor. I will not only give students frequent opportunities to assess their own learning, but also to assess my teaching. As an instructor, I want to reach as many students as possible and the best way to do so is by letting them teach me how to. I also plan to design my own course teaching concepts that I have found useful in my own research, centering around generative models and their applications to neuroscience. Despite the growing prevalence of these models in cognitive neuroscience, I have yet to come across any opportunities for undergraduates to expose themselves to these methods, other than research - which, paradoxically, generally requires exposure to these methods for undergraduates to get involved anyway. I hope to help students get a taste of real research methods through this class, giving them the chance to understand their interests and explore further in the future.